# Lesson 21: Setting up images

At the moment, Eleventy handles our images with passthrough copy. This is fine, really, because I’ve already optimised the images for us in the starter files. It’s a good idea, however, to let Gulp improve things for us.

In this last lesson of the module, we’re going to relieve Eleventy of its duty and task Gulp with processing, optimising and then distributing our images for us.

## Adding the image task

Create a new file in your `gulp-tasks` folder called `images.js` and add the following to it:

```javascript
const {dest, src} = require('gulp');
const imagemin = require('gulp-imagemin');

// Grabs all images, runs them through imagemin
// and plops them in the dist folder
const images = () => {
  // We have specific configs for jpeg and png files to try
  // to really pull down asset sizes
  return src('./src/images/**/*')
    .pipe(
      imagemin(
        [
          imagemin.mozjpeg({quality: 60, progressive: true}),
          imagemin.optipng({optimizationLevel: 5, interlaced: null})
        ],
        {
          silent: true
        }
      )
    )
    .pipe(dest('./dist/images'));
};

module.exports = images;
```

We’re using a handy package called [gulp-imagemin](https://www.npmjs.com/package/gulp-imagemin) that grabs our source images and then, depending on the file type, runs them through a specific processor. JPEG files go through [mozjpg](https://github.com/mozilla/mozjpeg) and PNG files go through [optipng](https://www.npmjs.com/package/optipng).

Once these files go through their processor, this task plops them into our `dist` directory for us.

Hopefully at this point, you’re starting to see a pattern with these Gulp tasks. They do one job for us, and do them well.

Right, we need to wire this one up, too. But before that, let’s install our dependency. Open up your terminal in `eleventy-from-scratch` and run the following command:

```bash
npm install gulp-imagemin
```

## Adding the task to our gulpfile

The last bit now is to repeat the process from the last lesson, so open up `eleventy-from-scratch/gulpfile.js` and add the following **after** the import of the fonts task, on around **line 5**.

```javascript
const images = require('./gulp-tasks/images.js');
```

Now, let’s update our `watch` task. Inside the `watcher` function, around **line 13**, add the following:

```javascript
watch('./src/images/**/*', {ignoreInitial: true}, images);
```

::: tip

When we use the `**/*` pattern in Gulp, it means find files in any directory. So in this context, `/src/images/**/*` means **all files** in `images`, regardless of folder structure and depth.

:::

Finally, add `images` to the `parallel` function on **line 18**. It should now look like this:

```diff
exports.default = parallel(fonts, images, sass);
```

Job done! If you now run `npm start` in your terminal, everything should be working fine.

## Wrapping up

That’s it for the asset pipeline. Hopefully, you can see now how Gulp and Eleventy make a powerful team. They each do their job independently and it all comes together nicely.

We’re now moving into the final module of this course, “Front-End Build”. It’s time to get our CSS on, and I’m _very excited_ to teach you how I like to build websites with CSS!
